Hello and welcome in this lecture we're gonna be working on getting an animation triggered in code.
So if I go over to our capsule he starts beating it up with punches and that's the idea and when we
walk away he stops.
Eventually we'll fix that a little bit more later.
But let's go in and find how we can trigger these events.
So last lecture Rick put together the animator controller and what you actually noticed is that when
we hit play two things happen.
First of all he does the character does a punch and that probably shouldn't be happening but we can
fix that.
And there's another thing here that is slightly weird.
It is saying the player animation of hit has no receiver.
Why is that happening.
That only happens when we actually do the attack animations have to select my player and hit the attack
trigger.
Then you see it creates another one of these hit things but not immediately.
So what's going on that.
Well let's deal with that problem first then we'll come back to why the character is actually trying
to hit straight away.
So this is a an event an animation event and animation events are basically if you go to your character
controller your animation controller and select the animation you can get to the animation that we want
by one or two ways.
Basically by selecting the animation whoops I'm not meant to open it selecting the animation in the
animation controller or in your asset browser in the project browser basically.
So with the animation selected we can actually have a look at the details of the animation by going
to window and then animation and then the animation again tab and I'm going to try and dock this somewhere
sensible like Can I pop this down here in place of the console.
So what you've got here is a bit confusing because it's actually just like a set of locations for each
frame for the different bones of the character but we're not interested in that.
What we're interested is this bit at the top which is an animation event.
And basically what this animation event is saying is that when you reach the stage in the animation
trigger off a call to a component on this object and that's great because it does allow us to do kind
of a synchronous things so that when you are at the punching stage of your character's animation so
let's have a look at this.
Now what Rick did is he did it by dragging in the player which is definitely one way of doing it you
can drag in the player or I did it by selecting the model with it hitting the little avatar button and
then selecting the unity model.
Either way is going to work.
I think having a look at how the actual player does it looks kind of better.
So let's do that.
And what you can do here is you can kind of scan through the animation and you can see that that hit
event is happening where is it happening it's happening around.
I don't know.
Eleven seconds so we can have a look at about 11 seconds and sure enough that is where the fist would
be making contact with the enemy.
So that's great because it means that we could spawn a particle effect right here some like blood splatter
or may we can take the damage at this point it allows us to synchronize our gameplay events with the
animation.
So that's the idea of animations but it gives us an error if we haven't got one implemented.
So what we should do here is go over to one of the objects on our planet let's see what objects we've
got available.
And by that I mean the model behaviors the components.
So we've got an action scheduler a fighter player controller what should handle a hit event.
Do you think.
Have a little mini think about this mini challenge.
I think that the fighter is the logical place to do this I'm going to open that up and then we can go
and how do you handle a hit event.
Basically you have to create a void event called hit for example like so.
And I believe this should be enough identikit even has to be public.
We'll check this out in just a second.
Got some red squiggles here.
Not entirely sure why these lines will disappear when you restart Visual Studio code but I'm not going
to do that in this lecture just to save time.
Let's go ahead and hit play and see whether it wants it to be public.
You see even when it's not public just the same as the start and update events in unity.
So these just ignore my red squiggly span I'll get rid of the millisecond the updates and starts they
don't they're private they aren't public.
So that's the same with hit.
It can be a bit confusing.
So what I'm going to do here is put a comment above it saying that this is an animation event because
if you don't put a comment in there when someone comes back to read the code including yourself you'll
be asking why on earth is where on earth is this hit called from.
You know I can right click and do find all references and you won't find any references because basically
this isn't called from within the code it's called within the animator.
And that can be super confusing now as to why we're punching repeatedly if we go over to our animator
you can see that the attack trigger is kind of set automatically we want to switch it off by default
because otherwise we'll be triggering it whenever we start the game.
So now if I start the game I should see that my player doesn't attack which is better but he will attack
if I hit the trigger.
But I have to hit the trigger when I've got the player selected in the scene so got the player selected
the scene hit the trigger and he punches he punches he punches.
It's fantastic.
Okay.
So what we want to do is figure out how to hit that trigger from code now if you think you already know
how to do this then you can not even look at what I'm about to put on the challenge.
Because that might ruin it for you but if you don't know has to follow along what we want to do is trigger
this at an appropriate time for us to actually show this animation.
So have a think about that and the code that you're going to use is going to be the following line where
you think and character should punch.
Basically it's gonna be get component animator I'm going to set the trigger instead of setting float
began to set trigger and the trigger is going to be attack.
So pause the video and have a go at seeing if you can fit that in the right place okay.
Welcome back.
So we're gonna go over into the fighter jets.
I think this is the right place to do this and is just ignore my red squiggly lines at the moment.
So what we can do here is I think the right place is going to be when we have stopped moving.
When we're attacking so we know this is the attacking behavior here with an update.
And we've got what happens when we're out of range as we move to when we're in range.
We should cancel the move.
But we should start attacking.
So we're going to do a get component and it's going to be animator and then we are going to on animator
core set trigger.
And here is where I really urge you to copy and paste the trigger name because I can guarantee you might
get it wrong this time but one time you aren't going to get it wrong so hopefully that does the trick
should set the trigger when we get within range.
Let's go and play and try it out.
So I am not currently triggering any animation.
I go over to a cube cube capsule and he attacks attacks attacks as quickly as he can.
And then if I move away yet there's a little bit of delayed animation stopping we'll fix that at some
point but it's generally good.
Now I just want to tidy up a little bit here because this update method is getting a little bit crowded.
What I'm gonna do is I'm just going to extract out this line 24 that is currently just setting the attack
trigger to make it more meaningful and going to extract it into a method with a little light bulb and
rename it with F2 to attack behavior.
Now this is partly because I know that we're going to extend expand this method further my auto complete
works I'm just going to correct it slightly.
We're going to expand this method further and do more stuff than just setting an attacks such as applying
damage and so on so forth.
So this is why I'm making it a function but also because it documents say in the update loop you know
we've got move to move cancel and then attack behavior.
So it really makes it clear what that's going to do.
Anyway we've got some attacking in place.
We've eliminated all our errors.
I'll see you in the next video where we will be working on slowing down his attacking because frankly
it's currently is all back to back as fast as he can go.
We're going to make that slowed down by a configurable amount.
See that.